---
description: Navigating Blockchain Terminology
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Glossary

Mazze Glossary is your  guide to understanding the terminology used throughout our documentation and in the broader blockchain universe. This resource is designed to demystify the jargon and technical terms you'll encounter, making the world of blockchain more accessible and comprehensible.

## <mark style="color:orange;">Definitions</mark>

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="187"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>51% Attack</strong> </td><td>A 51% attack is a potential security breach in blockchain networks, where a single entity gains over half of the mining power. This dominance can lead to network manipulation, such as rearranging transaction order, hindering transaction confirmations, or enabling double spending. The attack gets its name from the requisite control of at least 51% of the network's mining power.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Account</strong></td><td>An account is a fundamental entity with the capability to interact within the blockchain ecosystem. There are two types of accounts: Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs), controlled by private keys, and Contract Accounts, controlled by their contract code. An account is identified by its unique address and contains essential information like its balance (in the native cryptocurrency, e.g., Ether in Ethereum), storage, and transaction count.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Address</strong> </td><td>In Mazze, an address is a unique identifier associated with each account. It is a 20-byte (40 hexadecimal characters) string derived from the public key of an account (for EOAs) or from the creation transaction (for contract accounts). Addresses are used to send and receive transactions, including cryptocurrency transfers and smart contract interactions. They serve as references for users and contracts within the blockchain, enabling the decentralized and secure identification of accounts.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Block</strong> </td><td>A block in blockchain technology is akin to a ledger page, housing a group of transactions. Linked sequentially, these blocks form a "blockchain." In Mazze's case, blocks create a tree structure, permitting simultaneous production of multiple blocks.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Block</strong> </td><td>Reward A reward in the form of newly created coins given to miners for mining a block on the Mazze network, contributing to the network's monetary base expansion.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Blockchain</strong> </td><td>Blockchain is a decentralized, digital ledger technology that securely records transactions across numerous computers, preventing retroactive data alteration unless all subsequent blocks are also altered. This forms the backbone of cryptocurrencies and the Mazze network.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Consensus</strong> </td><td>Algorithm A consensus algorithm in computer science is a protocol to achieve unified agreement on data among distributed processes or systems. Mazze employs a unique consensus algorithm for efficient transaction ordering in large-scale decentralized networks.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph)</strong> </td><td>Mazze utilizes a DAG to represent its block structure, differing from traditional linear blockchain models. This DAG framework enables concurrent block production, essential for Mazze's high-throughput and low-latency capabilities.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>DAG-Embedded Tree Structure (DETS)</strong> </td><td>A structure that embeds the DAG within a tree-like framework, enhancing ledger security and throughput by allowing each block to reference multiple predecessors.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Decentralized Application (DApp)</strong> </td><td>A DApp is a software application that operates on a decentralized computing system like a blockchain. It differs from conventional applications by running on a blockchain's peer-to-peer network, ensuring transparency and immunity to censorship. A DApp typically consists of a front-end interface and back-end smart contracts.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Double Spending</strong> </td><td>Double spending is a potential issue in digital currency systems where a single digital token could be used multiple times. This arises from the possibility of duplicating digital files. Mazze, like other blockchains, employs consensus mechanisms to prevent this.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Epoch</strong> </td><td>An epoch in Mazze refers to a specific time frame used to update the world state, differentiating it from block-based updates in other blockchains.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ERC20</strong> </td><td>ERC20 is a token standard on Ethereum, outlining required functions and events for token contracts.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ERC721</strong> </td><td>ERC721, another Ethereum standard, defines non-fungible tokens (NFTs), each unique and suitable for representing individual assets.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine)</strong> </td><td>The EVM is the runtime environment for smart contracts in Ethereum. It's a virtual stack embedded within each full Ethereum node, responsible for executing contract bytecode. Contracts are written in high-level programming languages, such as Solidity, then compiled into bytecode, which the EVM can read and execute. The EVM is isolated from the main network, providing a sandboxed environment for executing smart contracts. It ensures that programs do not have access to the network, filesystem, or other processes.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Fork</strong> </td><td>A fork in blockchain represents a software alteration leading to two blockchain versions with a common history. Mazze experiences fewer forks due to its DAG-based structure, which supports simultaneous block creation.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Gas</strong> </td><td>Gas in blockchain is the fee for transaction execution or contract operation.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Hard Fork</strong> </td><td>A hard fork is a permanent blockchain divergence, where the new version is incompatible with the old. Although common in many blockchains, Mazze's DAG-based structure makes hard forks less frequent.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Hash</strong> </td><td>In blockchain, a hash is a fixed-length encrypted output generated from input data, securing data within blocks. Every blockchain block has a distinct hash, altering with any data change within the block.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Internal Transactions</strong> </td><td>Internal transactions in blockchain refer to operations within a smart contract, triggered by external transactions. These encompass token transfers and interactions with other smart contracts. They're not individually recorded on the blockchain but are trackable for analysis.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>MAZZE</strong> </td><td>MAZZE, the intrinsic currency of the Mazze network, plays a crucial role in network maintenance and resource usage charges. It incentivizes consensus mechanisms and serves as the transaction fee currency.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Mazze Ecosystem</strong> </td><td>The Mazze Ecosystem will encompass a wide array of projects, applications, and services built upon or integrated with the Mazze network, including decentralized applications (DApps), decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms, wallets, etc. It's a dynamic, evolving community contributing to Mazze's development.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Mining</strong> </td><td>Mining in blockchain is a competitive process of puzzle-solving for transaction validation and blockchain security. Miners use specialized equipment to find specific codes (hash values) that comply with set rules, adding a block of transactions to the ledger and earning cryptocurrency rewards. Mazze's <a data-footnote-ref href="#user-content-fn-1">Weighted Graph Ledger</a> structure organizes transactions uniquely in this context.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Node</strong> </td><td>A node in blockchain is a server partaking in the network, keeping a blockchain copy and adhering to network rules. Nodes validate transactions, bolstering network security and decentralization.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Nonce</strong> </td><td>In blockchain, a nonce has varying meanings. In mining, it's a number helping a block header meet difficulty level criteria. In transactions, it's a sequence number for account-sent transactions, essential for inclusion in the blockchain.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Oracles</strong> </td><td>Oracles in blockchain are agents that find, verify, and submit real-world data to blockchains for smart contract use. Mazze uses oracles to integrate external information into its smart contracts.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Outlier Penalty Ratio</strong> </td><td>A mechanism in Mazze that adjusts the mining reward of a block based on its relation to the main chain and its outliers, incentivizing miners to adhere to the consensus protocol.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Peer-to-Peer Network (P2P)</strong> </td><td>P2P networks allow computers to act as both clients and servers, sharing files and resources without a central server. Mazze operates as a P2P network, with nodes directly communicating.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Proof of Work (PoW)</strong> </td><td>A consensus algorithm where the first solver of a complex problem adds a block to the blockchain</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Public/Private Key</strong> </td><td>In cryptocurrency, a public key receives funds, and a private key signs transactions. Mazze users employ these key pairs for network interactions.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Smart Contract</strong> </td><td>A smart contract is a blockchain-run, code-based self-executing contract. In Mazze, users create and interact with these contracts, automating various applications and processes.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Solidity</strong> </td><td>A high-level programming language designed for developing smart contracts that run on the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). It's influenced by C++, Python, and JavaScript and is intended to be easy to understand and work with. Solidity is statically typed, supports inheritance, libraries, and complex user-defined types, making it suitable for writing a wide range of contracts - from simple wallet contracts to complex decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs).</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Transactions</strong> </td><td>A transaction in Mazze is an instruction from an external actor, cryptographically signed for authenticity. It can involve MAZZE transfers, token transfers, smart contract deployments, or smart contract function executions. Transactions are the sole method for data storage or updating on the blockchain.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Wallet</strong> </td><td>A wallet in blockchain is a digital repository for cryptocurrency. It can be software-based (online or offline) or hardware. Mazze network users employ wallets like Metamask for MAZZE management and network interactions.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Weighted Graph Ledger (WGL)</strong> </td><td>A novel solution in Mazze integrating a unique block weight system and a DAG-based ledger, enhancing scalability and security while maintaining blockchain efficiency.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Weighted Ledger Selection Rule (WLSR)</strong> </td><td>Part of Mazze's block processing methodology, WLSR implements a block weighting system to promote throughput and security.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZK Proofs)</strong> </td><td>Cryptographic methods that allow for transaction validation without exposing transaction data, thus maintaining confidentiality and enhancing privacy in blockchain transactions.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ZK-SNARKs and ZK-STARKs</strong> </td><td>Variants of Zero-Knowledge Proofs, where ZK-SNARKs are known for efficiency and small proof size but require a trusted setup, and ZK-STARKs offer similar benefits without the need for a trusted setup and are quantum-resistant.</td></tr></tbody></table>

If you encounter any issues or require assistance, do not hesitate to reach out to the Mazze team or the community for support via the Mazze [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/mazze).

[^1]: A novel solution in Mazze integrating a unique block weight system and a DAG-based ledger, enhancing scalability and security while maintaining blockchain efficiency.
